README.md, before:

## State Legislatures

This repository contains summary data about state legislative bodies, beginning with [partisan composition](http://www.ncsl.org/research/about-state-legislatures/partisan-composition.aspx) and [women in state legislatures](http://www.ncsl.org/legislators-staff/legislators/womens-legislative-network/women-in-state-legislatures-for-2013.aspx) as compiled by the National Conference of State Legislatures covering 2009-2013.

### Data Sources

 + [2009 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/documents/statevote/legiscontrol_2009.pdf)
 + [2010 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/documents/statevote/LegisControl_2010.pdf)
 + [2011 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/documents/statevote/LegisControl_2011.pdf)
 + [2012 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/documents/statevote/legiscontrol_2012.pdf)
 + [2013 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/documents/statevote/legiscontrol_2013.pdf)
 + [2014 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/documents/statevote/legiscontrol_2014.pdf)
 + [2015 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/Portals/1/Documents/Elections/Legis_Control_2015_Feb4_11am.pdf)
 + [2016 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/Portals/1/Documents/Elections/Legis_Control_2016_Apr20.pdf)

### Conversion Process

Source PDF files were converted to CSV format using [Tabula](http://tabula.technology/).

Commit message:

Add 2016 control csv file which resulted from tabula pdf conversion

README.md, after:

## State Legislatures

This repository contains summary data about state legislative bodies, beginning with [partisan composition](http://www.ncsl.org/research/about-state-legislatures/partisan-composition.aspx) and [women in state legislatures](http://www.ncsl.org/legislators-staff/legislators/womens-legislative-network/women-in-state-legislatures-for-2013.aspx) as compiled by the National Conference of State Legislatures covering 2009-2013.

### Data Sources

 + [2009 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/documents/statevote/legiscontrol_2009.pdf)
 + [2010 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/documents/statevote/LegisControl_2010.pdf)
 + [2011 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/documents/statevote/LegisControl_2011.pdf)
 + [2012 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/documents/statevote/legiscontrol_2012.pdf)
 + [2013 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/documents/statevote/legiscontrol_2013.pdf)
 + [2014 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/documents/statevote/legiscontrol_2014.pdf)
 + [2015 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/Portals/1/Documents/Elections/Legis_Control_2015_Feb4_11am.pdf)
 + [2016 Control](http://www.ncsl.org/Portals/1/Documents/Elections/Legis_Control_2016_Apr20.pdf)

### Conversion Process

Source PDF files were converted to CSV format using [Tabula](http://tabula.technology/),
 then manually adjusted and cleaned to reflect the original data.

The Conversion Process Roadmap includes a feasibility investigation into using scripts to perform this conversion.
